Add documentation for rule CA1854 (#29712)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1854.md

---
title: "CA1854: Prefer the 'IDictionary.TryGetValue(TKey, out TValue)' method"
description: "Learn about code analyzer rule CA1854 - Prefer the 'IDictionary.TryGetValue(TKey, out TValue)' method"

> ms.date: 06/1/2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 06/01/2022
```

ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
    - CA1854
helpviewer_keywords:
    - CA1854
author: CollinAlpert

> ms.author: CollinAlpert

Reviewer: `ms.author` must be a Microsoft employee (it's also an internal alias, not GitHub username afaik).

```suggestion
ms.author: gewarren
```

dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---

> # CA1854: Prefer the `IDictionary.TryGetValue(TKey, out TValue)` method

Reviewer: @gewarren Are backticks okay in headings?

Reviewer 2: Yes I think so - you can see them used here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/changing-case#toupper-method

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1854|
| **Category** |[Performance](performance-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

Detected an `IDictionary` element access guarded by a `IDictionary.ContainsKey` check.

## Rule description

An `IDictionary` performs an element access followed by a null check under the hood of the `IDictionary.ContainsKey` method. If this is used in an if-clause to guard a lookup of a value, essentially two lookups are performed out of which only one is used.

## How to fix violations

Replacing an `IDictionary.ContainsKey` invocation followed by an element access with the `IDictionary.TryGetValue` method fixes the diagnostic.

**Violation**:

```csharp
public string? GetValue(string key)
{

>     if(_dictionary.ContainsKey(key)) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if (_dictionary.ContainsKey(key))
    {
```

        return _dictionary[key];
    }

    return null;
}
```

```vb

> Public Function GetValue(ByVal key As String) As String?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public Function GetValue(key As String) As String
```

    If _dictionary.ContainsKey(key) Then
        Return _dictionary(key)
    End If

    Return Nothing
End Function
```

**Fix**:

```csharp
public string? GetValue(string key)
{

>     if(_dictionary.TryGetValue(key, out string value)) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if (_dictionary.TryGetValue(key, out string value))
    {
```

        return value;
    }

    return null;
}
```

```vb

> Public Function GetValue(ByVal key As String) As String?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public Function GetValue(key As String) As String
```

---
title: "CA1854: Prefer the 'IDictionary.TryGetValue(TKey, out TValue)' method"
description: "Learn about code analyzer rule CA1854 - Prefer the 'IDictionary.TryGetValue(TKey, out TValue)' method"
ms.date: 06/01/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
    - CA1854
helpviewer_keywords:
    - CA1854
author: CollinAlpert
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---

# CA1854: Prefer the `IDictionary.TryGetValue(TKey, out TValue)` method

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1854|
| **Category** |[Performance](performance-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

> Detected an `IDictionary` element access guarded by a `IDictionary.ContainsKey` check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An `IDictionary` element access that's guarded by a `IDictionary.ContainsKey` check.
```

## Rule description

> An `IDictionary` performs an element access followed by a null check under the hood of the `IDictionary.ContainsKey` method. If this is used in an if-clause to guard a lookup of a value, essentially two lookups are performed out of which only one is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an element of an `IDictionary` is accessed, the indexer implementation checks for a null value by calling the `IDictionary.ContainsKey` method. If you also call `IDictionary.ContainsKey` in an `if` clause to guard a value lookup, two lookups are performed when only one is needed.
```

## How to fix violations

> Replacing an `IDictionary.ContainsKey` invocation followed by an element access with the `IDictionary.TryGetValue` method fixes the diagnostic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace the `IDictionary.ContainsKey` invocation and element access with a call to the `IDictionary.TryGetValue` method.
```

**Violation**:

```csharp
public string? GetValue(string key)
{
    if (_dictionary.ContainsKey(key))
    {
        return _dictionary[key];
    }

    return null;
}
```

```vb
Public Function GetValue(key As String) As String
    If _dictionary.ContainsKey(key) Then
        Return _dictionary(key)
    End If

    Return Nothing
End Function
```

**Fix**:

```csharp
public string? GetValue(string key)
{

>     if (_dictionary.TryGetValue(key, out string value))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if (_dictionary.TryGetValue(key, out string? value))
```

    {
        return value;
    }

    return null;
}
```

```vb
Public Function GetValue(key As String) As String
    Dim value as String

    If _dictionary.TryGetValue(key, value) Then
        Return value
    End If

    Return Nothing
End Function
```

## When to suppress warnings

> It is safe to suppress this warning if you are using a custom implementation of an `IDictionary` which can work around a value lookup to perform the `IDictionary.ContainsKey` check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's safe to suppress this warning if you're using a custom implementation of `IDictionary` that avoids a value lookup when performing the `IDictionary.ContainsKey` check.
```
